We've got one more step in the process of building confidence.
When, not if, but when you have a bad deployment,
you need to be able to restore production quickly.
The speed at which you can respond to an incident will have more impact
on the confidence than whether or not the incident happened in the first place.
For normal blue-green deployments,
the rollback is simply switching the traffic back to the old production version.
This might be the route you take in this job,
or maybe you haven't promoted the green version at all and
all you have to do is destroy the green instances and infrastructure.
In this case, production had no downtime at all and
rollback is more about keeping costs low,
or maybe you're using another deployment strategy and
rollback is a bit more complicated or time consuming.
In this case, every second counts.
So it's critical that the rollback is automated and optimized.
Let's take a look at the second scenario,
where our smoke test failed and now we want to destroy our green version,
the one that almost became the new production version.